=head1 NAME

TPMLIB_ClearFlags   - Clear flags (since v0.8.0)

TPMLIB_GetFlags     - Get supported and set flags (since v0.8.0)

TPMLIB_SetFlags     - Set flags (since v0.8.0)

=head1 LIBRARY

TPM library (libtpms, -ltpms)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<#include> <libtpms/tpm_library.h>

B<TPM_RESULT TPMLIB_ClearFlags(uint64_t flags_to_clear);>

B<uint64_t TPMLIB_GetFlags(uint64_t *supported_flags);>

B<TPM_RESULT TPMLIB_SetFlags(uint64_t flags_to_set);>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This set of API calls allows to set and get flags that influcence
the behavior of libtpms.

B<TPMLIB_ClearFlags> can be used to clear currently set flags. Some flags
may only be cleared at a certain time relative to other calls, such as
B<TPMLIB_MainInit>.

B<TPMLIB_GetFlags> returns the currently set flags. The I<supported_flags>
parameter is optional and returns the set of flags supported by this
version of libtpms if a non-NULL pointer is passed.

B<TPMLIB_SetFlags> allows to set flags. Some flags may only be set at
certain time relative to other calls, such as B<TPMLIB_MainInit>.

The following flags are supported:

=over 4

=item B<TPMLIB_FLAG_HLK_COMPLIANCE>

This flag modifies the behavior of the TPM 2 code so that HLK tests
(of a certain version) are passing while they would fail if this flag was
not set. This flag can be set and cleared at any time.

=back

=head1 ERRORS

=over 4

=item B<TPM_SUCCESS>

The function completed successfully.

=item B<TPM_FAIL>

General failure indicating that the flag is not supported or cannot
currently be modified.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<TPMLIB_MainInit>(3)

=cut
